It's good to be alive and served Jehovah in these exciting times, don't you agree?
There seems to be no end of new things happening in Jehovah's organization.
Wherever we look, we see more and more improvements and refinements being made.
For example, we have changes in the format of our meetings and conventions with video presentations.
The way we carry out our preaching work with the addition of metropolitan witnessing and the use of witnessing cards.
Our new understanding of Bible teachings, especially with regard to the events that lie ahead of us in the Great Tribulation.
Just a few years ago, Hoover's could have envisioned what has been happening in recent months.
Who would have thought that we would have our own broadcasting station via the internet,
or that we would make our literature available in some 800 languages?
Truly, the celestial chariot with Jehovah and the driver's seat is charging ahead at full speed.
But how do you feel about all of this?
For me personally, I reflect on the joy I feel at the end of each convention,
whether it's a regional convention or an international one.
Usually our hearts are filled to the brim and overflowing with joy and appreciation, aren't they?
Our feelings of joy echo the words of the Psalmist as recorded at Psalm 144, verse 15.
There it says, Happy is the people for whom it is this way.
Happy is the people whose God is Jehovah.
But realistically, we have to admit that those feelings of joy and exhilaration do not always last.
It usually is a shock when we go home and have to face the realities of living in this week at Old World.
As second Timothy 31 clearly states, these are critical times hard to deal with.
So we should be surprised if at times we find it hard to maintain a positive attitude.
We may feel down, discouraged, disheartened and even overwhelmed by what we have to deal with.
What can help us to maintain a positive viewpoint under such circumstances?
Well, there are many things to start with.
Let's consider briefly three scriptures.
The first one is in Psalm 16, verse 11.
You make known to me the path of life.
In your presence is abundant joy.
There is happiness at your right hand forever.
What is the lesson for us?
Count your blessings.
Now the second scripture is Proverbs chapter 4 and verse 25.
There it tells us, your eyes should look straight ahead.
Yes, fix your gaze straight ahead of you.
What is the point of this verse?
Look to the future hope. See the bigger picture.
The third scripture is Ecclesiastes 4 and verse 6.
There we read, better is a handful of rest than two handfuls of hard work and chasing after the wind.
So what do we need to remember?
Get enough rest.
We need to be careful not to allow too much TV watching or surfing the internet to rob us of necessary rest and sleep.
Now these are just three of many things we need to keep in mind.
Another way to stay positive involves reading accounts recorded in the Bible.
When we look to the biblical record, we can't help but be encouraged by the fact that the prophets of old had similar feelings to ours.
They were people just like us.
For example, let's read what James was inspired to say about the prophet Elijah.
This is recorded for us at James 5, verse 17, where it says,
Elijah was a man with feelings like ours.
James goes on to show how prayer was of tremendous hope to Elijah, and he can likewise assist us.
But what else do we learn from Elijah's example?
Remember our dramatic Bible reading that helped us relive the exciting events of the time when Elijah challenged the false prophets of Bail,
and Jehovah proved that he is the only true God?
Can you imagine how faith strengthening it would have been to see fire actually come out of heaven and devour the sacrifice?
What about the expressions on the faces of those false prophets?
How would you have felt if you were Elijah?
Then what happened next?
The three-and-a-half-year-long drought broke with a heavy downpour.
Once again proving that Jehovah is the true God and that Elijah was his prophet.
Finally, Elijah outruns Ahab's chariot, running the 19 miles or 30 kilometers from Mount Carmel to Jezreel.
If you were Elijah, do you think that you would have been on an emotional high?
Your level of faith would have been at a peak, perhaps similar to how you feel at the end of an international convention.
Remember, though, what happened next?
The account at first Kings 19, 3, and 4 tells us,
At that he became afraid, so he got up and ran for his life.
He came to be a sheba which belongs to Judah and he left his attendant there.
He went a days journey into the wilderness and came and sat down under a broom tree,
and he asked that he might die.
He said,
It is enough.
Now of Jehovah take my life away, but I am no better than my forefathers.
But why was Elijah now so discouraged?
Notice what he said is recorded at first Kings 19 and verse 14.
I have been absolutely zealous for Jehovah the God of armies,
for the people of Israel have forsaken your covenant, your alters they have torn down,
and your prophets they have killed with the sword,
and I am the only one left.
Now they are seeking to take my life away.
Do you sometimes feel that way?
Woe is me.
I'm the only one facing this type of problem.
Nobody understands what I'm going through.
Well that thinking can undermine our positive attitude.
But what did Jehovah remind Elijah of?
Notice the three things listed at first Kings 19, 15 through 18.
The first point, Jehovah told him that the problem was going to be solved.
He was to anoint Jehu.
The second point, Jehovah promised him help in the form of a Lysha.
And the third point, Jehovah also informed him that he wasn't the only one.
There were at least 7,000 others.
We can be sure that Jehovah cares for us just as he cared for Elijah.
Let's read about this in 1 Peter chapter 5 and verses 6 and 7.
humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God,
so that he may exalt you in due time.
While you throw all your anxiety on him, because he cares for you.
Yes, Jehovah cares for us and helps us when we are discouraged,
just as he did for Elijah.
When I look back over the years, I remember things that discouraged me and made me feel low.
What were some of those difficult moments in my life?
Well, I remember the time when, as a missionary, I nearly died of typhoid fever.
I also remember supporting and caring for my first wife, Jenny,
during her 10-year battle with breast cancer.
Then also losing the sight in my left eye because of melanoma, a form of cancer.
Losing close friends and deaths, including Jenny, sometimes one after the other in close succession.
As a missionary, I had feelings of isolation.
And then of course the frustration that comes because of my own mistakes and weaknesses.
And trying to find a balance between what I want to do and what I can actually do.
All those things have at times discouraged me, and I know that many of you have faced far worse challenges.
But what can help us when we are overwhelmed by problems?
Well, in addition to all the things that we've already discussed,
we can find comfort in the words found at 1st Peter, chapter 5, verses 9 and 10.
But take your stand against him, that is the devil, firm in the faith,
knowing that the same kind of sufferings are being experienced by the entire association of your brothers in the world.
But after you have suffered a little while, the God of all underserved kindness,
who called you to his everlasting glory and union with Christ, will himself finish your training.
He will make you firm, he will make you strong, he will firmly ground you.
Yes, it's a wonderful encouragement to know that we're not alone.
Many of our brothers and sisters have faced similar problems and have been able to cope successfully.
As in Elijah's case, it is as if we're surrounded by a figurative 7,000 who are serving Jehovah along with us.
But like Elijah, perhaps at times we might forget these faithful ones.
So what do we need to do?
Get to know them, ask them questions.
We may be surprised by how encouraging their answers are.
We may in fact discover a whole new resource to encourage and strengthen us.